So now we're going to talk about
what we're trying to accomplish with
a loop, right?
We're trying to,
we know how they mechanically work but
what are we looking for?
What if we're looking for
the largest value or
checking to see if 42 is
a member of a set or something?
Or looking for the largest letter,
like the max function?
And so we're going to construct loops sort
of with an idea of doing something to each
value in the set that
we're iterating through.
And then coming up with
some kind of result.
And the pattern that we're going to do
is we're going to write a for loop.
And actually, in this next two segments,
I'm going to do the exact same for loop.
But we're going to do something
before the loop starts,
set some variables to initial values.
And then we're going to do something
to every one of the values in our list.
And then, we don't know what the largest
value is while the loop is running.
And our goal is, when the loop finally
finishes, that we have something.
Whether it's the maximum,
the minimum, the average, the total,
how many things there are,
how many things match.
And so, the iterations are getting
us closer to knowing the answer.
But they don't instantly know the answer,
so we we have to work towards the answer.
By setting something and
then sort of checking it a bunch of times.
And then we have sort of have absolute,
the truth comes out at the bottom.
And you'll see this in a second.
So here's the little loop
that we're going to do.
And I'm going to do this over and
over and over again, and these numbers,
you're going to get
tired of these numbers.
For some variable, iteration
variable in 9, 41, 12, 3, 74, 15.
We print out a before.
So we're going to do
something before the loop.
We're going to do something during
the loop and after the loop.
Right now,
I'm just printing everything out.
So you kind of see how
the loop kind of works, okay?
Okay, so here's a little problem.
I'm going to show you a number of
numbers and maybe it'll be a million or
maybe it'll be 6, I don't know.
But you don't know how many
I'm going to show you.
And I want you to tell me when it's all
said and done what the largest number is.
And it's not going to be too hard.
But imagine that you had to do this for
a million numbers as a human being.
That you were just sitting there and
numbers going by and by and by and by.
How would your brain
truly solve the problem?
So here, ready?
Here goes some numbers.
So did you get it?
Did you get the largest number?
It's not so much interesting about
what the largest number was.
It wasn't that many numbers.
What was your brain doing to sort of
track that problem, to solve that problem?
What was your brain doing? And what if you
really had to do that for a million numbers?
And they were not little
tiny numbers either,
they were sort of medium-size numbers.
And you had to do a million of them,
what would be your technique?
Other than running away,
because humans aren't good at this.
But what would be the precise
technique that you'd use?
And so here are the numbers.
Now actually as a human,
we love looking at these numbers.
Like oh, 74 . But then you ask, like how
did your mind exactly find them, right?
Our minds go, like [SOUND] there's 74.
Our mind doesn't look at them
the way a computer looks at them.
It just kind of zooms in on 74 and
just kind of [SOUND].
But that's not how a computer looks them.
A computer has to look at them as 3,
41, 12, 9, 74, 15.
I conclude at the very end that
74 is the largest number, right?
But a human's just [SOUND] 74.
So humans think about this differently.
And so we have to realize, the purpose
of that last little exercise, was to think
when we construct loops how computers are
going to attack this kind of a problem.
They attack it sequentially.
They don't attack it magically
the way we humans do.
And the way that you do it is you create
in your head, and you probably did it,
some notion of what is the largest
number I've seen so far.
Like a variable.
And we start and say oh, I haven't seen
any numbers so far, so
we'll stick -1 in there.
And then you see 3 and you go like well,
okay, that first number
is also the largest I've seen so
far, so 3 is pretty good.
If we stop now, and I tell you that's
the last number, the largest number is 3.
It's not the largest number
until I tell you we're done.
We see 41, it's like whoa,
3 is a bad number, 41 is even better.
It's way better, we'll keep 41 as our so
far, so far, so good.
But we're not done yet,
we've got to keep going.
12, whoa, the 12 is no good because
41 is larger, we'll keep 41.
9?
9's no good, we're in really great shape.
Is 41 the largest?
No, but it is largest so
far, so we know that much.
Now we see 74, whoa, that's way better
than 41, so keep track of that one.
And then we go like, 15, nah
looks like 74 is pretty good.
And now we're all done,
and we see that it's 74.
So what happens is at the end of the loop,
the only thing we knew was
the largest we saw so far and
when I tell you we're all done.
Then the largest we saw so far, like
just poof, it is the largest, right?
because it's all that
we're ever going to see.
So that's how you have to
construct these loops in Python.
So here's a bit of code that does
this logical bit here, okay?
And so I'm going to make a variable.
And remember that variables can have
underscores in it, and
I'm going to call this
variable the largest_so_far.
And I'm going to set it
to -1 at the beginning.
And before the loop starts,
remember I said there's stuff we do at
the beginning of the loop, and
then stuff we do during the loop.
And then our payoff is after the loop,
after the loop. Okay?
So before the loop we set
the largest we've seen so far,
which we've seen nothing, so
we say -1, then we print it out.
So before the loop largest is so
far is -1.
Then we have an iteration variable,
the_num is going to go through
successively 9, 41, 12, 3, 74.
Run this block of code five times,
six times, once for each of those numbers.
And we're going to ask, if the number
we're looking at, in this first case 9,
is greater than the largest so far,
then the largest so far is the number
we just looked at because it's
bigger than the one we saw before.
So largest_so_far is
the largest up to this point.
And then we kind of grab it basically.
So then we print out, for
each iteration, the largest so far.
So the first time we get 9 and
the largest we've seen so
far is 9 because that's the first one we
saw and it's the largest we've seen.
Then we go up, we advance to 41,
41 is the_num.
And then 9 is largest_so_far,
41 is greater than it, so
then we stick the 41 and
stick in largest_so_far.
So the largest we've seen so far is 41.
The one we just saw was 41,
go up again, now 12 is going to run.
And so we see 12 and
the largest so far is still 41.
And so we don't do anything,
go back up, run 3,
we get 3, largest so far is 41,
nothing needs to change.
Then we run again, we get 74, 74 runs, and
that is the new champion largest number.
And then we go back one more time, 15,
in this code we don't know
how many we're going to do.
We could do we could do 5 or 6 or
a million, but we don't care,
we just keep the best we're
doing is largest so far.
So we get 15 and
the largest so far is still 74.
And now the for loop says
you're done and we come out.
Now, largest_so_far is actually
the largest in the sequence of numbers,
which is 74.
So this is how,
that's a pretty messy slide.
This is basically how Python can
go through a list and looking at
the largest so far and then when we're
done with the list, that is the largest.
So you get the idea.
We set something up before,
we do something to each value, and then at
the end we kind of get the payoff of what
we were looking for in the first place.
So up next we're going to talk
about more of these loop idioms and
how to find the smallest, and how to
count things, and how to do averages and
sums and stuff like that.